So what we're going
to do now is I'm
going to give you
an overview of how
various predefined
non-concurrent Collectors are
implemented in the
Java class library,
in particular in the
Java Streams framework.
And as you'll see,
there's a bunch
of these things that
kind of come out
of the box as part of the
Collectors utility class.
So Collectors is a
utility class that
has a bunch of
factory methods that
are used to create collectors
for various common collection
types.
You probably recall
because I've talked
about this many times in other
videos and other courses.
A utility class in Java
is defined as final.
It means you can't
subclass it or extend it.
It only has static methods.
It has no non-static state, and
it has a private constructor
to ensure that you can't
make more than one instance
of this thing.
In fact, you can't
have any instances.
There's only-- it's
only used to get access
to its static methods,
which are basically
just kind of namespaced
functions, if you will.
It's kind of like a namespace
in a language like C++.
Now in the implementation
of Java Streams,
there's a class
called CollectorImpl,
and this is used to define
a very simple implementation
class for a Collector.
And you can see here
that what it does
is it's private to the
Collectors static class
and it implements the
Collector interface.
So CollectorImpl implements
the Collectors interface,
and it's then held privately to
the Collectors utility class.
Well, you might think, well,
fat lot of good that does me.
I can't get access to private
classes within the JDK.
They're hidden.
But hold on a second, we'll
deal with that, don't worry.
Now let's take a look at how the
CollectorImpl private class is
actually used by a bunch
of predefined methods
that appear in the
Collectors public interface.
So for example, here
is Collectors.toList.
This is that factor method
we've now seen used many times
by Collect in order
to be able to return
a non-concurrent Collector
that accumulates the input
elements in a stream
into a new list, which,
as you'll see here, is
implemented as an array list.
So let's kind of take a look at
this and we'll break it down.
So you can see toList is
a public static method,
so it's basically
a factory method,
and internally, it makes a new
instance of a CollectorImpl.
And of course, this works
just fine because collectors
is part of the JDK, so it can
access its private classes,
no problem.
As you can see here,
the very first parameter
passed into CollectorImpl is the
supplier constructor reference,
which, in this case, is
ArrayList, colon, colon, new.
So much like the example
we looked at before,
where we were kind of
walking through the elements
of the Collect API,
ArayList, colon, colon,
new is going to be used to make
the mutable result container.
OK, so that's the first
parameter that's passed in.
The second parameter that's
passed into CollectorImpl
is a method reference to
the needed or the desired
accumulator, which,
in this case, is List,
colon, colon, add.
All right, that looks
just like we did before.
Keep in mind, by the way,
that the code we're looking at
is actually the implementation
in the Java Streams package.
The next parameter here is a
combiner lambda expression,
which will basically append
the right list to the left list
and then return the left list.
As I mentioned before, this is
only used for parallel streams,
so it's not relevant for
this part of the course,
but it will be
quite relevant when
we talk later about how
parallel streams works.
In fact, this is the code
that's used for parallel streams
when you have a Collector
that's using a list.
And then the final parameter
that's passed in here
is the so-called characteristics
set, which, in this case,
is just basically like a
constant, a final field that's
defined as identity finish.
So CH_ID is just shorthand for
Characteristics.IDENTITY_FINISH,
and that indicates that this
particular Collector has
identity finish.
We don't care to do
anything special to it.
It doesn't-- it just accumulates
everything into its array list
mutable result container,
and when we're done,
that mutable result container
is the result of the collection,
so there's no need to do any
transformation in any other
way.
Now again, you're still
probably going, well,
what the heck good does this do?
This is a private thing.
Why are you showing me what
happens under the hood?
I can't make use of this.
Well, in fact, you
can make use of this,
and here's the thing
that's pretty cool.
Collector, the
interface, Collector,
actually defines a static method
called of(), which, of course,
makes it a factory method,
and that's a public method,
because, of course,
it's an interface,
so everything has to be public.
So this public factory method
of() uses the Collectors
CollectorImpl private class
in order to be able to create
a Collector, so
it's really cool.
So if you take a
look at this thing,
you can see that this
particular variant of
is passed four parameters,
where the last parameter's
optional, because its
Characteristics dot,
dot, dot, so that means
it's an optional parameter.
We'll see that there's also a
five-parameter version of as
well.
So these are some
other methods that
are defined above
and beyond what
we looked at before, with
supplier, accumulator,
and so on.
So you can see here that here's
the four-parameter, version,
and all it does is it just
takes the four parameters that
are passed in and
just passes them down
to new
Collectors.cCollectorImpl,
so it makes a new CollectorImpl
object passing in those four
parameters.
Here is the of() method.
It's an overloaded method
that's passed five parameters.
You can see the difference
is that this version does not
take a finisher, whereas this
version does take a finisher.
And again, because
Characteristics is optional,
you don't always
have to provide it.
You can leave it off.
OK, so that's basically
the of() methods,
and these are the public
methods that are exposed through
the Collector interface that
you can use in your programs
to create your own Collector.
And as I mentioned
before, both of them
internally use the private
CollectorImpl class,
which is perfectly copacetic
because the collector
interface is part
of the JDK, case,
so it can use those private
implementations that
are part of the same package.